The state calls its own violence law, but that of the individual, crime.
All things are Nothing to Me
My power is my property. My power gives me property. My power am I myself, and through it am I my property.
Is not all the stupid chatter of most of our newspapers the babble of fools who suffer from the fixed idea of morality, legality, christianity and so forth, and only seem to go about free because the madhouse in which they walk takes in so broad a space?
The people is dead! Good-day, Self!
We do not aspire to communal life but to a life apart.
For only he who is alive is in the right.
It is possible I can make very little of myself; but this little is everything, and better than what I allow to be made out of me by the might of others, by the training of custom, religion, the laws, the State.
The men of the future will yet fight their way to many a liberty that we do not even miss.
For what reason then do the realists show themselves so unfriendly toward philosophy? Because they misunderstand their own calling and with all their might want to remain restricted instead of becoming unrestricted! Why do they hate abstractions? Because they themselves are abstract since they abstract from the perfection of themselves, from the elevation of redeeming truth!
The men of the future will yet fight their way to many a liberty that we do not even miss.
Might is a fine thing, and useful for many purposes; for "one goes further with a handful of might than with a bagful of right."
No knowledge, however thorough and extensive, no brilliance and perspicuity, no dialectic sophistication, will preserve us from the commmonness of thought and will. It is truly not the merit of the school if we do not come out selfish.
Man has not really vanquished shamanism and its spooks till he possesses the strength to lay aside not only the belief in ghost or in spirits, but also the belief in the spirit
Just observe the nation that is defended by devoted patriots. The patriots fall in bloody battle or in the fight with hunger and want; what does the nation care for that? By the manure of their corpses the nation comes to "its bloom"! The individuals have died "for the great cause of the nation," and the nation sends some words of thanks after them and - has the profit of it. I call that a paying kind of egoism.
Liberate yourself as far as you can, and you have done your part; for it is not given to every one to break through all limits, or, more expressively, not to every one is that a limit which is a limit for the rest. Consequently, do not tire yourself with toiling at the limits of others... He who overturns one of his limits may have shown others the way and the means; the overturning of their limits remains their affair.
Now it is clear, God cares only for what is his, busies himself only with himself, thinks only of himself, and has only himself before his eyes; woe to all that is not well pleasing to him. He serves no higher person, and satisfies only himself. His cause is - a purely egoistic cause.
The people's good fortune is my misfortune!
The web of hypocrisy of today hangs on the frontiers of two domains, between which our time swings back and forth, attaching its fine threads of deception and self-deception. No longer vigorous enough to serve morality without doubt or weakening, not yet reckless enough to live wholly to egoism, it trembles now toward the one and now toward the other in the spider-web of hypocrisy, and, crippled by the curse of halfness, catches only miserable, stupid flies.
He who is infatuated with Man leaves persons out of account so far as that infatuation extends, and floats in an ideal, sacred interest. Man, you see, is not a person, but an ideal, a spook.
If I cherish you because I hold you dear, because in you my heart finds nourishment, my need satisfaction, then it is not done for the sake of a higher essence whose hallowed body you are, not on account of my beholding in you a ghost, an appearing spirit, but from egoistic pleasure; you yourself with *your* essence are valuable to me.
You call me the unhuman, and so I really am--for you; but I am so only because you bring me into opposition to the human, and I could despise myself only so long as I let myself be hypnotized into this opposition. I was contemptible because I sought my 'better self' outside me; I was the unhuman because I dreamed of the 'human'; I resembled the pious who hunger for their 'true self' and always remain 'poor sinners'; I thought of myself only in comparison to another; enough, I was not all in all, was not--unique. But now I cease to appear to myself as the unhuman, cease to measure myself and let myself be measured by man, cease to recognize anything above me: consequently--adieu, humane critic! I only have been the unhuman, am it now no longer, but am the unique, yes, to your loathing, the egoistic; yet not the egoistic as it lets itself be measured by the human, humane, and unselfish, but the egoistic as the--unique.
I love men too -- not merely individuals, but every one. But I love them with the consciousness of egoism; I love them because love makes me happy, I love because loving is natural to me, because it pleases me. I know no "commandment of love." I have a fellow-feeling with every feeling being, and their torment torments, their refreshment refreshes me too; I can kill them, not torture them.
"Political liberty," what are we to understand by that? Perhaps the individuals independence of the State and its laws? No; on the contrary, the individuals subjection in the State and to the States laws... Political liberty means that the polis, the State, is free; freedom of religion that religion is free, as freedom of conscience signifies that conscience is free; not, therefore, that I am free from the State, from religion, from conscience, or that I am rid of them. It does not mean my liberty, but the liberty of a power that rules and subjugates me; it means that one of my despots, like State, religion, conscience, is free. State, religion, conscience, these despots, make me a slave, and their liberty is my slavery.
There are intellectual vagabonds, to whom the hereditary dwelling-place of their fathers seems too cramped and oppressive for them to be willing to satisfy themselves with the limited space any more: instead of keeping within the limits of a temperate style of thinking, and taking as inviolable truth what furnishes comfort and tranquility to thousands, they overlap all bounds of the traditional and run wild with their imprudent criticism and untamed mania for doubt, these extravagating vagabonds.
Is not all the stupid chatter of most of our newspapers the babble of fools who suffer from the fixed idea of morality, legality, christianity and so forth, and only seem to go about free because the madhouse in which they walk takes in so broad a space?
Where the world comes in my way--and it comes in my way everywhere--I consume it to quiet the hunger of my egoism. For me you are nothing but--my food, even as I too am fed upon and turned to use by you. We have only one relation to each other, that of usableness, of utility, of use. We owe each other nothing, for what I seem to owe you I owe at most to myself. If I show you a cheery air in order to cheer you likewise, then your cheeriness is of consequence to me, and my air serves my wish; to a thousand others, whom I do not aim to cheer, I do not show it.
Whoever will be free must make himself free. Freedom is no fairy gift to fall into a man's lap. What is freedom? To have the will to be responsible for one's self.
The State has always one purpose: to limit, control, subordinate the individual and subject him to the general purpose Through its censorship, its supervision, and its police the State tries to obstruct all free activity and sees this repression as its duty, because the instinct of self-preservation demands it. The State does not permit me to use my thoughts to their full value and communicate them to other men unless they are its own. Otherwise, it shuts me up.
Freedom cannot be granted. It must be taken.
Whoever is a complete person does not need to be an authority.
A race of altruists is necessarily a race of slaves. A race of free men is necessarily a race of egoists.
The divine is God's concern; the human, man's. My concern is neither the divine nor the human, not the true, good, just, free, etc., but solely what is mine, and it is not a general one, but is -- unique, as I am unique. Nothing is more to me than myself!
We don't call it sin today, we call it self-expression.
Whoever knows how to take, to defend, the thing, to him belongs property.
Nothing is more to me than myself.
The object of the state is always the same: to limit the individual, to tame him, to subordinate him, to subjugate him.
I say: liberate yourself as far as you can, and you have done your part; for it is not given to every one to break through all limits, or, more expressively, not to everyone is that a limit which is a limit for the rest. Consequently, do not tire yourself with toiling at the limits of others; enough if you tear down yours. He who overturns one of his limits may have shown others the way and the means; the overturning of their limits remains their affair.
The State practices "violence," the individual must not do so. The state's behavior is violence, and it calls its violence "law"; that of the individual, "crime".
Whoso is full of sacred (religious, moral, humane) love loves only the spook, the "true man," and persecutes with dull mercilessness the individual, the real man.
Religion itself is without genius. There is no religious genius and no one would be permitted to distinguish between the talented and the untalented in religion.
The habit of the religious way of thinking has biased our mind so grievously that we are - terrified at ourselves in our nakedness and naturalness; it has degraded us so that we deem ourselves depraved by nature, born devils.
One is not worthy to have what one, through weakness, lets be taken from him; one is not worthy of it because one is not capable of it.
Might is a fine thing, and useful for many purposes; for "one goes further with a handful of might than with a bagful of right."
Property exists by grace of the law. It is not a fact, but a legal fiction.
'Freedom' awakens your rage against everything that is not you.
Now do you suppose unselfishness is unreal and nowhere extant? On the contrary, nothing is more ordinary!
I have a fellow-feeling with every feeling being.
The true human being doesnt lie in the future, an object of longing, but rather it lies in the present.
Knowledge must die and rise again as will and create itself anew each day as a free person.
From the moment when he catches sight of the light of the world, a man seeks to find out himself and get hold of himself.
*I* am the true human being.
I can have only so much freedom as I procure for myself by my owness.
It is not recognized in the full amplitude of the word that all freedom is essentially self-liberation.
Liberty of the people is not my liberty!
The young are of age when they twitter like the old.
Free yourself as far as you can, and you have done your part.
Now why, if freedom is striven after for love of the I after all - why not choose the I himself as beginning, middle, and end?
If it is right for me, it is right. It is possible that it is wrong for others: let them take care of themselves!
The moral man is necessarily narrow in that he knows no other enemy than the immoral man.
We are, every moment, all that we can be; and we never need be more.
It is possible I can make very little of myself; but this little is everything.
Dont exhaust yourself on the limits of others; its enough if you tear down your own.
What is it, then, that is called a 'fixed idea'? An idea that has subjected the man to itself.
If I cherish you because I hold you dear, because in you my heart finds nourishment, my need satisfaction, then it is not done for the sake of a higher essence whose hallowed body you are.
Man, you see, is not a person, but an ideal, a spook.
I love men too  not merely individuals, but every one. But I love them with the consciousness of egoism.
We have only one relation to each other, that of usableness, of utility, of use.
For me you are nothing but--my food, even as I too am fed upon and turned to use by you.
Man, your head is haunted.
No thing is sacred of itself, but by declaring it sacred, by my declaration.
I shall be the enemy of every higher power, while religion teaches us to make it our friend and be humble toward it.
You imagine great things, and depict to yourself a whole world of gods that has an existence for you.
The truth' outlasts the downfall of the world of gods, for it is the immortal soul of this transitory world of gods; it is Deity itself.
Man with the great M is only an ideal, the species only something thought of.
Nothing is more to me than myself!
The truth wears longer than all the gods.
To the believer, truths are a settled thing, a fact; to the freethinker, a thing that is still to be settled.
Crimes spring from fixed ideas.
For only he who is alive is in the right.
When one is anxious only to live, he easily, in this solicitude, forgets the enjoyment of life.
God sinks into dust before man.
Pray do the like with what you call my property!
The individuals have died 'for the great cause of the nation,' and the nation sends some words of thanks after them.
Insurrection leads us no longer to let ourselves be arranged, but to arrange ourselves
What matters the party to me? I shall find enough anyhow who unite with me without swearing allegiance to my flag.
If a factory-worker must tire himself to death twelve hours and more, he is cut off from becoming man.
People is the name of the body, State of the spirit, of that ruling person that has hitherto suppressed me.
Every State is a despotism, be the despot one or many.
Property exists by grace of the law. It is not a fact, but a legal fiction.
One is not worthy to have what one, through weakness, lets be taken from him; one is not worthy of it because one is not capable of it.
Whoever knows how to take, to defend, the thing, to him belongs property.
Whoever is a complete person does not need to be an authority.
I do not step shyly back from your property, but look upon it always as my property, in which I respect nothing.
Revolution is aimed at new arrangements; insurrection leads us no longer to let ourselves be arranged, but to arrange ourselves, and set no glittering hope on 'institutions'.
We owe each other nothing, for what I seem to owe you I owe at most to myself.
What is not supposed to be my concern!
